Back in 2014, LinkedIn announced the launch of its publishing platform, LinkedIn Pulse.
Previously it was only LinkedIn influences who are allowed to write articles on LinkedIn,
but Pulse open the door for all LinkedIn users to create content on the platform.
In 2017, Pulse stop being a separate feature and merged into the homepage of LinkedIn.
Now when you login to LinkedIn,
you'll see the News Feed on your homepage
just as you would on other social media platforms like Facebook.
Also similar to Facebook,
you might be notified of new content through your notifications tab and
any articles you post could be shown on
your profile depending on whether the user is logged in or not.
This presents an opportunity for us to mock at
our profile and extend our network through creating content.
When you create a post on LinkedIn,
other members will see the post on their LinkedIn News Feeds,
which may cause them to engage with the post forever increasing its reach.
Or they might click directly on your profile to learn more about you.
Depending on how appealing your content is,
it could go viral and attract lots of use to your profile.
But even if it's not a huge hit,
you're still setting yourself apart from the majority of
LinkedIn users who aren't creating anything.
In my mind, whether you're creating content on LinkedIn directly,
doing it on your own website or publishing on other platforms,
creating content is one of the best,
if not the best inbound marketing strategy that you can employ for
yourself as a freelancer or professional services business.
I like to quote popular programmer and blogger,
John Sonmez here, who on this topic has said,.
But if you can commit to writing one blog cause of the week ,
even if it's crap, trust me,
if you do this after here,
you won't be a crap writer anymore.
You might start out as one,
but you'll get better.
But if you can commit to that,
you're going to be in the top,
definitely the top 0.1 percent of
the rest of the freelancers out there as far as building a brand and market
yourself like you're going to have be doing that
much more than the majority of people ever do.
Now, that we've established what LinkedIn content can do to promote your profile,
let's look at the ways you can actually go about creating content on LinkedIn.
So content is a little bit weird on LinkedIn.
It shows up in a few different places.
For instance, if we go to profiles we've seen before,
we can't see all the content that we've
shared and posted on LinkedIn, which is interesting.
If we open up an Incognito window and I go to the same profile.
You can see when we scroll down,
articles that I have posted directly on LinkedIn show up here.
So not when I'm logged in,
but when somebody is looking at my profile when they're not signed in,
they'll see the articles that I've posted up here.
I've also created some native video content for LinkedIn,
which I'll show you in just a second.
Which strangely enough does not show up on either this version of my profile,
or if we click back to the logged in version,
this version of my profile.
So it's not exactly like Facebook in the sense that anything you
post would go on your own page as well.
But what we can do is click over here,
go to posts and activity under Manage,
and you can see all of my posts here.
So I've created a video which I'll talk about in just a second.
But it also is showing me the posts on LinkedIn that I've engaged with as well.
It's showing this video multiple times for the times
that I have replied to people's comments on the video.
So it's not a very efficient system,
but this is where you can see the activity on your posts and also
see your activity liking other people's posts like I have done here.
Okay, if I scroll down,
I'll show you some content that I've created previously on my own professional blog.
As you can see down here,
I decided to create content on my own blog and then share it
on LinkedIn rather than publish on LinkedIn itself.
Still testing that out whether it's better to create it on LinkedIn.
As you saw before, I did used to create articles directly on LinkedIn.
But the problem with that is they're only on
LinkedIn and you would have to share the article
from LinkedIn to anyone who may want to view it in a different context.
If you have the article on your own website,
then you own that content.
Not to say that you don't earn your work,
that you post on LinkedIn.
But if we click on this link,
you can see it goes to my actual website,
and you can read the article and then click on other areas that are off LinkedIn.
So is pros and cons to publishing content off of LinkedIn itself and linking to it.
Then there's of course, pros and cons to creating content directly on LinkedIn.
For these articles that I've created,
I've decided to put them all on a central website so that when I send people my website,
they can read them.
But as I said,
I recently created a native video just for LinkedIn.
If we scroll back up to the top,
you can see I created this video,
discussing what it is I actually do.
As it says here, some of my clients I've found
can be a bit confused by the term Shopify theme development.
I break it down a little and take a look at how it works.
Not that people didn't know what I provided,
but there's different areas of
Shopify development and different parts of the Shopify ecosystem.
I thought it was a good bit of content to create to explain how themes
fit into the overall structure and experience of your Shopify store.
That has received pretty good engagement.
As you can see, I've gotten some views, some comments,
and one of the tips my friend and colleague Ian and gave me
was to tag people that I thought would find it relevant in a comment,
and that has invited them to comment on the post,
forever increasing its engagement so that can reach more people.
I did find, after I posted it,
that I was getting a few more connection requests from relevant people in my industry.
It at the very least will help you connect with people that
also do what you do or something similar who are in that industry.
But I definitely got some relevant connection requests after posting this video.
Definitely I recommend experimenting with creating content.
If you want the best bang for your buck,
I would definitely recommend doing video because not a lot of people at doing video on
LinkedIn and it's the most engaging type of content that you can post on LinkedIn,
as is the case on other social media platforms as well.
So of course, if you create a video,
it's going to stand a pot more than just linking a article or writing a text post.
But I would recommend to get the best results on LinkedIn,
you want to create native content.
Either writing a post with a bunch of text that's just on LinkedIn,
or creating a video that's just on LinkedIn
doesn't mean you can't have it on other places as well.
But I think that LinkedIn is going to favor that content and it's
going to be more appealing in people's News Feeds.
Like this from my friend Danielle.
This really stands out on the News Feed
compared to just a little bit of texts or even an image.
So speaking of the news feed,
let's actually move out of this view now.
Click on ''Home'' and this will take us to the News Feed.
As you can see, this is where the content that you create will be posted.
You can also see some ads here.
But the more rich the content that you can post,
the more reach it's likely to get,
and the more engagement and just overall benefit
to you of growing your network and finding your clients you'll receive.
So you want to,
if it makes sense to put in photos, put in photos.
If you can do a video like I've done,
definitely do a video.
But creating content is definitely a way to increase your network,
promote yourself, and hopefully get a few new leads in the process.
The way you actually create content is by scrolling up to the News Feed,
and as you can see here,
we can write a text post or we can add photos here,
just like we would on the other social media platforms.
Or we can do what I did for my video.
Share a video here.
You can also join a Event and write a native article here.
But if you click ''Right article'' then you'll be taken to
the publishing platform to create your article.
All right, so content is king as they say,
it's a new, relatively new thing to LinkedIn.
LinkedIn didn't start out with everyone having the ability to create content.
But as a lot of people are doing it,
it's a competitive advantage and it's not too saturated.
So you can stand out and set yourself apart by creating
lots of content and drawing people into your profile increasing your leads,
increasing your connections and resulting in more work.
The final thing about content that I'll share is something I
showed you before in the last video is on my profile.
You can see here that I have featured content.
So these bits of content, if I click on this,
it's going to go to YouTube,
and that's just an ad there.
But if we get past the ad,
you can start to watch my video on Shopify liquid,
which should be one of the top videos when you search,
Shopify liquid at present.
So it's good authority building.
You can see it's gotten a good number of views.
Over here, I've got my Shopify theme development class,
which has gotten some good reviews on it.
So again, authority building in my particular niche,
in my particular field of work.
If you have content from other places,
you can post them or feature them here and you can also
feature articles and media that you already have on LinkedIn up here too.
I wonder if I could share.
No. Fortunately, I can't share a video, or maybe I can.
Here we go. Let's go back here.
Click on ''Feature'' and look at that.
I can feature the video as well.
I'm going to take that off because it just doesn't look
consistent with the other two items.
But yeah, you can actually feature that content,
that video content on your profile.
As we saw before,
it doesn't come up by default.
So that might be something you want to do if you are creating videos.
But the principle here is create content,
increase your reach, set yourself apart,
and position yourself more as a leader in what it is you do for your particular niche.